---
layout: post
status: publish
published: true
title: Don't Let Our Youth Go to Waste (press release)
author:
  display_name: Andy
  login: admin
  email: andy@fullofwishes.co.uk
  url: http://www.grange85.co.uk
author_login: admin
author_email: andy@fullofwishes.co.uk
author_url: http://www.grange85.co.uk
date: '2004-03-25'
categories:
- miscellaneous
- galaxie 500
tags: []
---
<p>GALAXIE 500 <br />DON'T LET OUR YOUTH GO TO WASTE (1987-1991)<br />2-Disc DVD Set <br />2-disc DVD set with over 3 1/2 hours of live performances including unreleased songs, their entire music video collection, a never-before-seen UK television performance with filmed interview, as well as a deluxe booklet containing interviews with all three band members by James McNew of Yo La Tengo.<br />Street date: June 29, 2004<br />"Galaxie 500 could be one of the most influential bands to emerge from the late-80's independent rock scene." Karen Schoemer, THE NEW YORK TIMES<br />"Galaxie 500 made some of the starkest, most beautiful, American underground music of the past decade."  - MELODY MAKER<br />"Galaxie 500 is a wintry opiate. A hypnotic open loop of gentle drums, a bass that becalms like a mother's finger to her lips, and a guitar that drifts purposefully from languid to leveling. A voice singing high and strange. Sounds like love  (lost) in a cool snap." Pat Blashill, SPIN<br />Establishing itself as the independent leader in music DVDs with such highly-acclaimed releases as I AM TRYING TO BREAK YOUR HEART (named by ROLLING STONE as one of the top ten rock concert movies) and the legendary graffiti/hip hop film STYLE WARS, Plexifilm is following suit with Galaxie 500's DON'T LET OUR YOUTH GO TO WASTE (1987-1991), a comprehensive two-disc visual document spanning the career of one of indie rock's most influential and beloved bands. <br />A compendium of all their music videos, a TV appearance, and an archive of over 40 songs performed live, DON'T LET OUR<br />YOUTH GO TO WASTE includes a performance of an unreleased original song "Buzz in My Head" and a live version of Jonathan Richman's "Back in Your Life," both of which were never recorded or released in any other form. The deluxe booklet contains photos and an interview with all three members, Dean Wareham, Damon Krukowski and Naomi Yang conducted by Yo La<br />Tengo's James McNew.<br />DON'T LET OUR YOUTH GO TO WASTE (1987-1991) is a four-hour visual document of Galaxie's ethereal performances as well as their entire career. It has countless live songs culled from eight shows, including two tracks which are exclusive to this DVD. From fan footage to professionally-produced segments, the concerts have been compiled from over 40 hours of performances, starting from an early local show at the Middle East in Boston in 1988, to a full set at a November 1990 concert at the University of London. The NEW MUSICAL EXPRESS raved about a concert, "Galaxie 500 are the world's premier softness trio. Live they leave you stunned."<br />The first disc contains all four of their videos, directed by friend and photographer Sergio Huidor as well as segments taken from five concerts--from early local performances in Boston to 1990 west coast tour dates--which all came from the band's personal collections. It is rounded out with a performance and interview for UK television, taken at the band's<br />peak in popularity. The second disc, or "Bootlegs" disc, has two full concerts from 1990: the first in Atlanta and the second in London, both shot by audience members. After receiving tapes by a call-out to fans from around the world, the band curated all the footage and picked what best captured their career.<br />ABOUT GALAXIE 500:<br />One of the most important rock groups of the 80s and 90s, before the word "alternative" became industry jargon, Galaxie 500 blended a unique celestial sound with the American rock 'n' roll minimalism of such underground icons as The Velvet Underground as well as referencing the rock canon with frequent nods to The Beatles. Formed in 1987 by three high school friends who all ended up at Harvard together, Galaxie 500's trademark reverb-drenched sonic daydream made possible by<br />producer and Shimmy Disc label owner Kramer established them as one of the great unsung American bands. After their debut record, TODAY, released on Boston microlabel Aurora, the band was commercially overlooked stateside, but across the Atlantic it was another story. With such adulatory proclamations the likes of "Galaxie 500 transcend transcendence" (MELODY MAKER) the band signed to U.K. label Rough Trade which released their brilliant follow-up, ON FIRE. Again championed by the British press (SOUNDS called the record "utter magnificence" and MELODY MAKER, "a stunning collection<br />of daydream pop") the band naturally went across the pond to tour. Following incessant European touring, their subsequent album was THIS IS OUR MUSIC, a reference to Ornette Coleman's eponymous jazz album recorded exactly 30 years earlier. The trio again embarked on another tour of Europe with an appearance at the giant Glastonbury Music Festival in the U.K. <br />Poised to take rock by storm, this proved to be their last album, the group disbanding in 1991. Dean subsequently formed Luna with members of The Feelies and The Chills and recently released an album of duets with Britta Phillips on Jetset records. <br />Damon & Naomi continued to write and record together as the duo "Damon & Naomi", first for Kramer's Shimmy Disc label<br />and since then for Sub Pop Records. They have also recorded with the Japanese band Ghost, the Boston underground band Magic Hour, and Tom Rapp from the 60s acid-folk group Pearls Before Swine.<br />DVD DETAILS:<br />DISC 1: (approx. 130 minutes)<br />MUSIC VIDEOS ­ 4 music videos directed by Sergio Huidor<br />-Tugboat<br />-When Will You Come Home<br />-Blue Thunder<br />-Fourth of July<br />UK TELEVISION, London February 9, 1990<br />-Tell Me <br />-Strange <br />-Here She Comes Now (Cale/Morrison/Reed/Tucker)<br />-Interview with the band<br />LIVE ARCHIVE - 20 songs from 5 shows <br />1) Middle East, Cambridge, Massachusetts March 19, 1988 <br />-Oblivious<br />-I Can't Believe It's Me<br />-Back in Your Life* (Richman)<br />-Buzz in My Head*<br />	*Both have never been released.<br />2) Commonwealth School, Boston, Massachusetts April 21, 1989 <br />-Tugboat<br />-Temperature's Rising<br />-When Will You Come Home<br />3) Kennel Club, San Francisco, California March 28, 1990 <br />-Flowers<br />-Blue Thunder<br />-Decomposing Trees<br />4) Club Lingerie, Hollywood, California March 30, 1990 <br />-Snowstorm<br />-Plastic Bird<br />-Victory Garden (Cunningham/Thompson)<br />-Pictures<br />-Ceremony (Curtis/Hook/Morris/Sumner)<br />5) Kennel Club, San Francisco, California October 15, 1990 <br />-Summertime<br />-Spook<br />-Hearing Voices<br />-Don't Let Our Youth Go to Waste (Richman)<br />-Melt Away<br />DISC 2: (approx. 100 minutes)<br />BOOTLEGS - Two full concerts from 1990<br />The Point, Atlanta, Georgia January 26, 1990<br />-Decomposing Trees<br />-Pictures<br />-Don't Let Our Youth Go to Waste (Richman)<br />-Blue Thunder<br />-Plastic Bird  <br />-When Will You Come Home<br />-Ceremony (Curtis/Hook/Morris/Sumner)<br />ULU (University of London), London, England November 15, 1990<br />-Fourth of July<br />-Hearing Voices<br />-Summertime<br />-Don't Let Our Youth Go to Waste (Richman)<br />-Spook<br />-When Will You Come Home<br />-Sorry<br />-Melt Away<br />-Listen, the Snow Is Falling (Ono)<br />-Blue Thunder<br />-Here She Comes Now (Cale/Morrison/Reed/Tucker)<br />GALAXIE 500 <br />DON'T LET OUR YOUTH GO TO WASTE (1987-1991)<br />2-disc DVD set <br />A Plexifilm release<br />U.S.A.  1987-1991  approx. 230 minutes  Color  16mm/Video  Dolby Digital Stereo  1.33:1 (original aspect ratio)<br />DVD release date: June 29, 2004<br />Catalog No. PLX-015<br />Price: $27.95<br />http://www.DamonandNaomi.com<br />http: //www.fuzzywuzzy.com<br />http://www.deanandbritta.com<br />http://www.plexifilm.com</p>
