---
layout: page
status: publish
published: true
title: Origins by Byron Coley
author:
  display_name: Andy
  login: admin
  email: andy@fullofwishes.co.uk
  url: http://www.grange85.co.uk
author_login: admin
author_email: andy@fullofwishes.co.uk
author_url: http://www.grange85.co.uk
wordpress_id: 3830
wordpress_url: https://www.fullofwishes.co.uk/?page_id=3830
date: '2013-03-09 23:22:13 +0000'
date_gmt: '2013-03-09 23:22:13 +0000'
categories: []
tags: []
---
<p><em>This article was first published on <a href="https://static.fullofwishes.co.uk/galaxie500box/index.html">Rykodisc's promotional web site for the 1996 Galaxie 500 box set</a>, it was rewritten for the sleeve notes for the Copenhagen live album release in 1997.<br />
Byron Coley, Northampton, Massachusetts</em></p>
<p>In 1996 the American "alternative" music scene is a done deal. It has been codified and packaged and crammed down the maw of the vox pop in every way imaginable. This was not the case ten years ago, when "making the big time" consisted of flying to England for a series of lousy, maybe-we'll-break-even club dates. It was not then possible to imagine the golden rings that would be offered to ostensible "underground" bands if only they would deign to hop on the proper carousels. It seems incredibly naive to imagine now, but at that time groups were forming all over the United States to play for nothing but the sheer kick of entertaining their muses. Undogmatic, highly personalized, often outside the scenes even in their own hometowns, these were the peers of Boston's Galaxie 500 -- a gorgeously melodic and inventive band whose career was finished before enough people had really made note of it.</p>
<p>Galaxie 500 are awarded their overdue hosannas with the Rykodisc release of Galaxie 500, a deluxe four-CD box set, with all three nearly-impossible-to-find albums with bonus tracks galore, videos, detailed liner notes, and a fourth disc of rarities entitled Uncollected Galaxie 500. The program begins with the skeletal beauty of "Tugboat," Galaxie's first 45 release for the Aurora label, traverses through wildly dreamy album out-takes (all of which have been remastered by New York producer Kramer) and culminates with the box set's fourth disc. Comprised entirely of tracks of outrageous rarity -- the Caff 45, one of the bonus tracks from the European press of their debut album, and previously unreleased demos -- the material on this fourth disc (and even rumors of it) has driven collectors to twitching distraction. Each of the four discs includes an enhanced-CD track, featuring the videos the band produced with director Sergio Huidor. Lovely new art by bassist Naomi Yang, a 48-page booklet with essays by each of the members, unpublished photos and reproductions of Galaxie 500 ephemera round out this lovingly-assembled tome.</p>
<p>The Galaxie 500 story begins in New York City, where Naomi Yang, Damon Krukowksi, and New Zealand transplant Dean Wareham attended high school together. Graduating in 1981, Dean and Damon enrolled in college in Cambridge, Massachusetts. During their first year there, nascent instrumentalists Wareham (on guitar) and Krukowski (on drums) formed a band that played the sorts of ridiculous punk covers that college students love to play. The following year, Naomi also came to college in Cambridge and became the band's graphics advisor. And while it was all a bit silly, the process of musical creation ignited small fires in the brains of them all.</p>
<p>By the end of their undergraduate careers, Dean and Damon decided to start a "real" band. After an ad in the Village Voice failed to produce any suitable applicants for the job of bassist, Naomi announced that she would play bass (something she had never done previously). The trio spent the summer of 1987 woodshedding in New York. They returned to Cambridge in the fall of that year, named themselves after one of Ford's mid-60s muscle cars, started playing local clubs and recorded a handful of demos. Three songs included in the box set are from the homemade demos that Galaxie cut that year, and even through the haze of this rudimentary production, the infernal glow of their magic emerges. While everyone else in the States seemed intent on mimicking either the Stooges or R.E.M., Galaxie 500 combined a thoroughly languorous attack with guitar jittery that was unmistakably their own.</p>
<p>In 1987, Galaxie 500 hooked up with producer Kramer to record their first single. Although it seems unlikely that he realized it at the time, Kramer's decision to coat the vocals on "Tugboat" with several feet of reverb gave the band's sound its singular style: a soft and chewy vocal center around which they wrapped their billowy sonic mix. Urgently simple Moe Tucker-ish drumming, bass work that slides along your back like a gentle 300 pound masseuse, and guitars that strum lightly or blare wildly with disdain for external logic collided exquisitely with vocals that sound as though they were emanating from hypnotized lips. As unwieldy as this combination might sound on the surface, its alchemy was absolutely addictive. (Further expanding the view of Galaxie's early sound, the box set also features the previously unreleased "I Can't Believe It's Me" from these sessions, and "King of Spain," the b-side to the "Tugboat" single.)</p>
<p>Hailed in Boston as a masterpiece, "Tugboat" set the stage for Galaxie 500's first album, Today, which they recorded with Kramer (for $750) in the summer of 1988. Melody Maker called the LP "an astonishing debut by anybody's standards," and indeed it is. The incredible, supple beauty that Galaxie spun like straw was so sweetly melancholic that it all but smothered you. Damon's drums drift with the simmering presence of jazz classicism, Naomi's bass is rich with dreamy emotional content, Dean's guitar completes the aural landscapes begun by '69-era Sterling Morrison, and the vocals emerge from the Ouija board of eternity. A highlight of Today is the incredible primal-drone-hunch treatment the band gives to Jonathan Richman's "Don't Let Our Youth Go to Waste." The three extra tracks from this session, included on the box set, would have made Sonic Youth's Thurston Moore fiercer in his declaration of Today as "my favorite guitar record of 1988."</p>
<p>Galaxie 500 began to play beyond the Boston limits and their stock rose, especially in the UK where Today was received enthusiastically. In the summer of 1989, the band re-entered Kramer's studio to record their second album, On Fire, and its companion EP, the UK-only release Blue Thunder, both for Rough Trade. The critical acclaim for these recordings was deafening. Sounds described the album as "utter magnificence," Melody Maker called it "a stunning collection of daydream pop," even Rolling Stone gave it 3 stars.</p>
<p>The world was beating its head on Galaxie's door; the On Fire/Blue Thunder pairing expanded effortlessly on the band's exquisite base. The plaintive threads of the Galaxie 500 sound had been pulled tighter by the technical proficiency that had enveloped these ex-amateurs, and unlike so many others, technique had sharpened their instincts rather than masked them. Playing with flash is superfluous, when you have the moxie to cover Red Crayola's "Victory Garden" and Joy Division's "Ceremony," making both of them over in your own image. With the release of On Fire/Blue Thunder, Galaxie 500 took their playing to a whole new level.</p>
<p>Before recording their third LP, Damon & Naomi gave up on graduate school to pursue their work with the band full time. In late 1989 and early 1990, Galaxie played frequently in Europe, especially in the UK, garnering rave reviews across the board. In the spring of 1990, Dean decided to move back to New York while his bandmates stayed in Boston. They recorded their third album, This Is Our Music, in the summer of 1990, again with Kramer. The album's title was nicked from Ornette Coleman's classic for Atlantic, recorded 30 years earlier.</p>
<p>Although This Is Our Music would eventually become Galaxie 500's swan song, it seems like another subtle step forward in the band's brilliant trajectory. There are more blended vocals, Naomi's best singing on record (a cover of Yoko Ono's "Listen, the Snow Is Falling"), and another set of stunning originals. The press reaction to This Is Our Music was classically adulatory. The band played the UK festival circuit, embarked on their first full-blown American tour, and seemed on the verge of another major evolutionary leap, when Dean announced he was leaving the band.</p>
<p>The box set includes a few fantastic out-takes from the This Is Our Music session, including the Young Marble Giants' "Final Day" and a ripping leap through the Velvets' "Here She Comes Now," as well as a cover of the Rutles' classic "Cheese & Onions," recorded for a Rutles tribute record assembled by Kramer.</p>
<p>Thus, in the spring of 1991, not too long before alternative became alternative, one of the era's best bands came to an untimely end. The three Galaxie 500 members have recorded subsequently; Dean with Luna, Damon & Naomi as Damon & Naomi and as members of Magic Hour. But there will always be a special place for Galaxie 500. The least Bostonian of all bands, and the one whose original goal (getting a single into local bargain bins) was so modest, may prove to be amongst the best that Boston has ever produced.</p>
