---
layout: post
status: publish
published: true
title: Britta Phillips Interview Questions For Aroundphilly.com
author:
  display_name: Andy
  login: admin
  email: andy@fullofwishes.co.uk
  url: http://www.grange85.co.uk
author_login: admin
author_email: andy@fullofwishes.co.uk
author_url: http://www.grange85.co.uk
date: '2004-10-30 00:00:00 +0100'
date_gmt: '2004-10-30 00:00:00 +0100'
categories:
- luna
tags: []
---
<p>Question:<br />What kinds of preparatory things do you do just before a live show (i.e., do you do any voice exercises)?<br />Britta:<br />No, I don't do any voice exercises. Just some last minute nose powdering and lip glossing. If we're doing a song we haven't played in a while, I'll practice a bit in the dressing room. I often have a pre-show cocktail.<br />Question:<br />Why didn't Luna participate in any politically-tinted concerts/shows while it is known that the band (or members of) is clearly against the war in Iraq?<br />Britta:<br />We were invited to participate in a couple of NYC events, but that would be like preaching to the converted.   Besides, we hadn't played or practiced in a long time and so weren't "performance ready." We were also very busy working on other projects (Dean and I have been doing soundtrack stuff).<br />Question:<br />How do you feel about the release of a new album only months before Luna will be calling it quits? Will you have the same excitement to play the new songs even though you know you won't be playing them for years to come?<br />Britta:<br />I'm always excited about the release of a new Luna album. The fact that this will be our last does add an element of bittersweet to the upcoming tour, though. The shows in Japan were quite beautiful. There were two girls weeping through the last show in Tokyo. It was very moving. I think we'll all be even more emotionally involved playing these songs for the last time.<br />Question:<br />Besides the reasons that Dean listed on FuzzyWuzzy.com for breaking up, <br />(because many of those points listed appear to be humorous) what are <br />the true reasons?<br />Britta:<br />We would like to spend more time on other projects. This is just what bands do, eventually, unless they are big money-makers. Want to call it quits while we still like each other.<br />(See the recent Rolling Stone and Pitchfork Media interviews - both online)<br />Question:<br />When did talk first arise about ending the band and did that have any effect on the Rendezvous recording sessions?<br />Britta:<br />It came up very naturally during a band meeting after we'd finished recording Rendezvous. No one was surprised or upset, so it was probably something we'd all thought about, consciously or unconsciously<br />Question:<br />Some reviews have stated that Rendezvous is a slight flashback to Penthouse, yet with it's own vibrancy. How do you feel about the Rendezvous material in relation to Romantica and Penthouse? Is it slightly more collaborative?<br />Britta:<br />Well, I wasn't around for Penthouse, but I suppose it is more collaborative since Sean wrote lyrics and sings them. And I think the sound is closer to Penthouse than Romantica since we <br />rehearsed a lot more beforehand and recorded it like a live, all in one room together, with very little overdubbing. Songwise/lyrically, it is hard to say....maybe its more like <br />Romantica...? Its hard to be objective about a new record. I'm still too close to it <br />and I haven't listened to it that much. Time will tell.   I'm really happy with it, though, and I love playing the new songs live.<br />Question:<br />Why now do two of Sean's songs finally appear on an album and were they written specifically for Rendezvous?<br />Britta:<br />I'm not sure when Sean wrote those songs. But he had very specific melodic and lyrical ideas and Dean just suggested that he try singing them when we were working out the songs during the rehearsal phase.<br />Question:<br />Were there any leftover tracks and if so, what will be done with them?<br />Britta:<br />There are a few. I'm guessing they'll end up on an EP at some point.<br />Question:<br />To your knowledge, is there any yet unreleased Luna material in the can?<br />Britta:<br />I'm aware of some unfinished songs. Perhaps there are finished songs from before I joined the band. You'd have to ask the guys about that. And there are demos that were never recorded. Dean and I might do some of his on our next record. There are also a couple of covers that were rejected.<br />Question:<br />Will there be another Dean & Britta album? Any idea about what may <br />follow another Dean & Britta album?<br />Britta:<br />Yes, we are planning to start recording another one with Tony Visconti next spring. Then Dean may do an album with Maggie Cheung. And we both might do something with Sonic Boom. I recorded a couple of songs with Mirwais this year. I'm hoping to sing on his next solo album and maybe even work with him on a future solo album of my own.<br />Question:<br />What's your favorite Luna song to listen to? To play?<br />Britta:<br />I'm bad with these sorts of questions. I don't have one favorite in either category. Or, rather, they change. Right now, my favorite song to play might be "Tracy I Love You." Or at least it was last week in Japan. "Speedbumps" is really fun, too! Oh, and "Friendly Advice!" My currant favorites Luna songs to listen to are mostly new ones, I guess. "Rainbow Babe," "Cindy Tastes of BBQ." Older ones include "Sideshow by the Seashore" and "23 Minutes in <br />Brussels".<br />Question:<br />A rumor in Luna/Galaxie 500 circles said that Dean felt that opening for Interpol was a step back for the band. Is that true? Do you feel that way?<br />Britta:<br />Rumors are fun, aren't they? But no, he never said that.<br />Question:<br />Is the band looking forward to touring together for a record that will be its last? And, how much will you miss Luna.	<br />Britta:<br />Yes, very much so. I think this will be the most emotionally charged and poignant Luna tour ever.  I'm sure I will miss Luna. It is difficult to say how much, though right now. I really don't know. I will have many fond memories. I will really miss playing live the most. Luna fans are the best.<br />Question:<br />Do you see yourself, Dean, Sean, and Lee ever playing together again in the future after some time has passed following the breakup?<br />Britta:<br />Sure, I could see that happening. Some NY's Eve years from now might be nice.</p>
