---
layout: post
title: 11th July 2025
date: 2025-07-11 00:00 +0000
series-title: Substack
author:
  display_name: Andy
  login: admin
  email: andy@grange85.co.uk
  url: https://www.grange85.co.uk
image:
categories:
-
tags:
-
---
## My record collection #265 - Dean & Britta - Neon Lights (12")

Neon Lights was recorded during the pandemic in Dean & Britta's home studio and released on Quarantine Tapes... twice, once Britta's original mix and then the Matt Fishbeck/Holy Shit remix that was given the original German title.

{% ahfowimage "https://media.fullofwishes.co.uk/00-misc/my-record-collection/dean-and-britta-neon-lights-12.jpg" "Dean & Britta - Neon Lights" %}

This 12" single contains both those versions and two additional remixes by Matt Fishbeck - the first called the _Baxter Street Bounce_ which has a snippet of repeated, sampled, dialogue which I haven't figured out the provenance of, maybe it has none? I assume the "cassette bounces by Philip Haut" credit relates to this remix?

The second new version is called _piano remix_ and is mostly a long, meditative piano piece with Dean's vocal and some treated and layered Dean and Britta voices, there's a little bit of guitar about three minutes in, but then drifts back to the gentle piano and treated voices. It is hypnotic and beautiful.

Dean sent me this in early 2021, the sleeve is signed but also included in the package was an unsigned sleeve... and a hat. I notice that the sleeve has the URL _deanandbritta.net_ which isn't used any more, and was I think brought into existence when [deanandbritta.com](https://www.deanandbritta.com) got hacked.

When I thanked Dean I told him that I got "a nostalgic buzz for a proper 12" single that played at 45rpm" which Dean then described as "the best sounding format"... and this does sound great.

 - *Catalogue Number:* AHFOW 12/018
 - *Artist:* Dean & Britta
 - *Title:* Neon Lights
 - *Notes:* One single, two sleeves
 - *Format:* 12" single
 - [Buy 'Neon Lights' on Bandcamp](https://deanandbritta.bandcamp.com/album/neon-lights)

---

## My record collection #266 - Luna - Season of the Witch (CD)

This is my CD copy of Luna's cover of Donovan's Season of the Witch and is the first copy I bought around the time of release.

{% ahfowimage "https://media.fullofwishes.co.uk/00-misc/my-record-collection/luna-season-of-the-witch-cd.jpg" "Luna - Season of the Witch (CD)" %}

As with the [10" vinyl copy](/2024/10/17/my-record-collection-180-luna-season-of-the-witch-10/) the CD has the three tracks Luna played on The Mark Radcliffe Show in December 1995, you can [listen to the whole session on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xTO3Dmtofo4).

The video for Season of the Witch was directed by Mary Harron who directed the film it comes from, and I've [already posted about that](/2023/11/30/my-record-collection-091-i-shot-andy-warhol/) too!

So maybe I could post about the Donovan original... [but I already did that too](/2014/04/16/originals-season-of-the-witch-by-donovan-covered-by-luna/) - although there's nothing particularly insightful there so probably not worth following that link!

Everyone covers Season of the Witch, so, here are my favourite three covers that aren't by Luna

1. Julie Driscoll, Brian Auger and Trinity - recorded it in 1967 - this TV performance is great... although Julie's look is a major contribution to that!
{% ahfowvideo "uLDNNqDhp8w" "Season of the Witch - Julie Driscoll, Brian Auger & Trinity" "https://media.fullofwishes.co.uk/00-misc/my-record-collection/julie-driscoll-season-of-the-witch.jpg" %}

{:start="2"}
2. Sam Gopal recorded it for their 1968 album Escalator... and yes, that's Lemmy singing (so I get another Motörhead reference in here).
{% ahfowaudio {
"audiourl": "https://media.fullofwishes.co.uk/00-misc/audio/sam-gopal-season-of-the-witch.m4a",
"audiocap": "Sam Gopal - Season of the Witch"
} %}

{:start="3"}
3. Actually only just came across this Meursault cover but it is pretty darned good:
{% ahfowvideo "XG86LURwQDg" "Meursault - Season of the Witch (2017)" %}

 - *Catalogue Number:* 10/017
 - *Artist:* Luna
 - *Title:* Season of the Witch
 - *Format:* CD

Previously in [my record collection](/category/my-record-collection):
 - [[094] I Shot Andy Warhol](/2023/11/30/my-record-collection-091-i-shot-andy-warhol/)
 - [[188] Luna - Season of the Witch (10")](/category/my-record-collection/)

---

## This week in history

---

## This week's discoveries and rediscoveries
