---
layout: post
status: publish
published: true
title: 'Press: Galaxie 500 - This Is Our Music (September 1990)'
author:
  display_name: Galaxie 500
source:
  name: Press release
  publication_date: 27th September 1990
categories:
- galaxie 500
tags: []
---
ROUGH TRADE  
GALAXIE 500  
THIS IS OUR MUSIC

611 BROADWAY  
SUITE 311  
NEW YORK, NY 10012  
212 777-0100  
FAX: 212 505-9314

September 27, 1990

This Is Our Music is stolen from Ornette Coleman - the title that is, not the
jazz. Damon elaborates, "We dug it because it was simultaneously so simple and
true a statement, and yet so arrogant. The irony being that Ornette's
arrogance is based on his idea that his music is so advanced and avant-garde -
what would he think of our two-chord songs?"

This Is Our Music is both quieter and louder than the previous albums Today
and On Fire. There's no mistaking the Galaxie 500 sound, but the past year's
experiences of touring and mass media praise has spawned a new confidence'.
The nine songs here, with all their experiment and variation, are quite
deliberate rather than naive or accidental. This Is Our Music takes the
listener on a surreal journey of haunting and moody melodies. It is their
music. The trip begins with "Fourth of July", the album's first, single. With
its unexpected uptempo pace and singalong quality it is an almost guaranteed
hit. Along the way Galaxie 500 pick up Yoko Ono's "Listen, the Snow Is
Falling", featuring Naomi on vocals. On Fire brought Galaxie to the edge of
fame...This Is Our Music will put them over the top.

Named after the Ford automobile Galaxie 500 chose their title because "it
sounded like a late seventies one-hit disco troupe, especially with the 'ie'
at the end!" Ironic then that their early critics dubbed them - for better or
worse - "fragile", "still" and "shy and retiring."

Dean Wareham was born in New Zealand but moved to Australia with his family
when he was 7 and to New York when he was 14. It was there that he met Naomi
Yang and Damon Krukowski in high school. The three became Galaxie 500 when
they graduated and moved to Boston.

In Boston Galaxie 500 were playing live regularly. The city's heavy metal
revival did not deter them from pursuing the kind of graceful, dreamlike and
often subdued guitar-rock that had been mapped out beforehand by the Velvet
Underground, The Feelies, Jonathan Richman's Modern Lovers and Television.
Their first single, the double A-sided, 7" only "Tugboat"/"King of Spain" came
out in July 1988 on the Boston-based Aurora label. Sonic Youth's Thurston
Moore listed it as his favorite record of the year. The album that followed,
Today, was recorded in three days and released on Aurora in November 1988.
Today captured the attention of Rough Trade and 1989 brought. Galaxie 500 a
record deal with the label and their second LP, On Fire. Released to critical
praise in both the United States and Europe it proved to be an altogether
"slower, more lush, and more live" affair than Today. In describing their
music Dean says, "I once read an interview with Lou Reed when he said that
moving from one chord to another can be incredibly powerful, and that's what a
lot of our songs are about."

Continuing their production relationship with Kramer Galaxie 500 now bring us
This Is Our Music, their third LP. They will tour the United States in October
and the UK and Europe in November.

Contact:  
Rough Trade New York - (212) 777-0100  
Rough Trade San Francisco - (415) 541-9570

