---
layout: post
status: publish
published: true
title: 'Review: Damon & Naomi - Knust, Hamburg , Germany - 2 November 1998'
author:
  display_name: Carsten Wohlfeld
source:
  name: The Galaxie 500 Mailing List
  publication_date:  2nd November 1998
categories:
- miscellaneous
tags: []
---
**Review by Carsten Wohlfeld**

And I didn’t even plan to see this show... My friend Jörg and I made the 400
km trip to Hamburg last night to see Bob Mould on his ‘last ever’ electric
tour. But competition in Hamburg was tough last night: R.E.M played their
first German gig in ages (at the 800 capacity Grunspan), Blondie played their
first show here in an even longer time, as I mentioned Bob Mould was on and
for the ‘lager, lager, lager’ crowd Underworld played a rare show as well. All
that on a Monday, all that in Hamburg.

Well, before we were going to drive to the Logo, I thought I could say ‘hi’ to
Damon & Naomi before their show, as I did a very, very enjoyable interview
with them in Amsterdam back in May and I had some articles on Damon & Naomi
and Galaxie 500 that I wrote after that interview for them as well. When I
told them that we wouldn’t be able to see their show cause we had tickets for
Bob Mould, Naomi just smiled and said: "You’d see the better show here" and
Damon added: "This will probably our one and only German show ever" (or words
to that effect)... Well, needless to say, if two people who changed your life
when they still were in Galaxie 500 and to this day still are one of your
favourite acts as Damon & Naomi, basically ask you to see their show, you
can’t turn them down. Well, I can’t. So they put us on the guestlist (thanks
again) and then we eagerly waited for the show to start, hoping that we would
be able to see at least the end of Bob Mould’s set as well :-) There were only
25 - albeit very enthusiastic - people attending. Naomi came to us to talk to
us for a bit before the show... apparently they are very pleased with the way
the tour has been going, Japan must’ve been a lot of fun as well. Being a big
Bob Dylan fan I asked her to do "It’s All Over Now Baby Blue" tonight, she
just smiles and said "maybe". As the intro music for the show they used the
original playback singers from India, the ones that inspired their last album
title. Strange stuff :-)

The came on stage at around 9.30pm, thanking everybody that they’d chosen
Damon & Naomi over R.E.M., Blondie ("that’s were we would’ve gone", Damon
joked. "We’ll try our best to be as gloomy as possible"), Bob Mould and
Underworld and started with a long "Turn Of The Century". I have to admit that
I liked the songs where Naomi played the mini harmonium (is that what it is?!)
better and so I enjoyed the version "New York City" and "Information Age"
(maybe my favourite Damon & Naomi song ever) even more. As it has been
mentioned before, they played a selection of all three albums, "because they
have been released in Europe for the first time now" as Damon pointed out. I
guess it really makes sense then. They might have played England before and it
was a bit dull to see them do the same songs again, but this was their first
ever - if I’m informed correctly - German date and so everybody was quite
pleased to hear the old stuff. They also did the "Navigator", but what
completely made my night was the song that followed it. "Blue Moon" (from Big
Star’s "Sister Lovers" album) is one of the most beautiful songs ever when
Alex Chilton sings it, but with Naomi on vocals and almost moved me to tears.
It was absolutely amazing. That song alone was well worth the long drive and
missing Bob Mould for me! Damon had all sorts of cute stories to go with the
songs and as I said before, the crowd loved every bit of it. The set included
- not in this order - "How Long" and "Eye Of The Storm" (another personal
favourite) as well and they closed with "This Car Climbed Mt. Washington".
Before they left the stage, they were trying to auction off the last remaining
two T-shirts (needless to say, I got one), but of course they came back, three
times actually, to do "Tour Of The World" and Tom Rapp’s "Translucent
Carriages".

"Carsten, you’re still here?" Naomi asked after that song - she seemed to be
really surprised that I didn’t leave early to see Bob Mould. "Yup, I am", I
responded, "how about playing the song I wanted to hear?" "That’s blackmail",
she smiled. "No", I said, "It isn’t cause you decide". They didn’t do "It’s
All Over Now Baby Blue" unfortunately and for a second I was a little
disappointed, but only for a second. Because before the very last song Damon
said: "Well, we got something especially for you people here in Hamburg. I
know we got our own songs, but..." - "This is our own song", Naomi interrupted
him and Damon started to strum a few chords, before stopping. "I forgot the
words!" - "Make them up", Naomi smiled. "No, there’s this one image in this
song that will help me to guide me through it", Damon answered (or something
very close to that) and yes, they did "Blue Thunder" and needless to say that
made everybody out of the 25 people very, very happy!

A perfect end for what was a very strong, very laid-back 85-minute show. I for
one was more than happy that I’d stayed. I got my T-shirt, got my posters
signed - "For Carsten - who skipped Bob Mould, love Naomi + Damon" it reads -
waved goodbye to the two and even managed to see quite a bit of the Bob Mould
show a few blocks away. We even managed to make the 400km drive home in just
three hours, despite the dreadful rain! What a night. Thanks to Jörg and thank
you for reading. Sorry for any misspellings and mistakes of any kind, it’s
been a long day. Goodnight.

