---
layout: post
status: publish
published: true
title: 'Review: Damon & Naomi - 12 Bar Club, London , UK - 19 March 1997'
author:
  display_name: Andy Aldridge
source:
  name: The Galaxie 500 Mailing List
  publication_date: 19th March 1997
categories:
- damon & naomi
tags: []
---
I sometimes hate how much of a fan I sound at times - I decided this as I
stood "chatting" to Naomi afterwards "you're wonderful...you're great...I love
everything...etc." I cant help it - that's the way I am, and they WERE
wonderful AND great, and I do love everything...

The 12 Bar is a tiny venue - the stage takes up a quarter of downstairs - and
the table Jonathan had reserved for us was right at the front of the stage - I
fumbled my way in as Damon & Naomi where half way through their opening number
and, rather embarrassed, sunk down onto the tiny wooden chair.

Damon & Naomi sat on stage, Damon playing acoustic guitar and Naomi
alternating between bass (what beautiful noise she got from that bass - it's
so nice to hear a bass as a melodic instrument!) and a fascinating Indian
squeeze box called a sruti which made a beautiful drone.

The first set - I didn't make notes so this is of the top of my head -
included (in no particular order)

  * This Car climbed Mt. Washington
  * How Long
  * New York City
  * Information Age
  * Forgot To Get High
  * ...and a couple of others

...and off they went - in the bar between sets I ineptly introduced myself "Oh
we're afraid of you" said Damon - which I found amusing because I was scared
stiff of them (it's traditional for me to be scared of my heroes) - after some
fumbling words from me - and an explanation from Damon that they were actually
over, as publishers, for the London Book fair the previous week and the show
was just tagged onto that - hence only one show - off went our heroes to be
entertained elsewhere while I slunk back to my seat red-faced and settled down
to one of the worst acts it's ever been my misfortune to see (although Ken
today reminded me of a band called The Troubleshooters we'd seen at the
Fiddler a few years back).

"Hi we're the Sorrentinos, and we're from California" was followed by 40
minutes of godawful chunky guitar RAWK music - I read for a while until it
occurred to me that sitting in the front row reading while a band was playing
their hearts out was an insult that not even a band as poor as The Sorrentinos
deserved - halfway through the last number they "took it down" and introduced
the band - I began to think that they did deserve that insult after all - but
thankfully it was too late - big finish and off.

Next on were an English folk trio - now I have to admit to having a soft spot
for some English folk music - I can happily listen to some Fairport Convention
or Sandy Denny without really flinching (too much) - but this was a poor
example - too cheery and twee, I want heartfelt and earnest from my folk music
- a pedal steel guitar - and too long a set.

Damon & Naomi returned and announced that they were unprepared for two sets
and proceeded to repeat a lot of the first set - they did a new song that'll
be coming out as a 7" on Earworm soon - they did a cover of Colin Palmer's
(ex-Incredible String Band) "Spirit Of Love" - they smiled and joked (and had
a moan at the people on the balcony who insisted on talking through the set!)
- and on the whole made my night - it was all too beautiful - exactly what I
hoped it would be - only more so.

At the end this inarticulate fan chatted with Naomi for a short while "you're
wonderful...you're great...I love everything...etc. etc." - it was nice for my
ego to know they knew of me - we talked of upcoming events - a long interview
in the Ptolemaic Terrascope ("probably the longest ever") a track on a Pearls
Before Swine tribute album and a single on Blue Rose Records, the Earworm
single featuring a cover of a Ghost (Japanese Krautrockers) track on the flip
side name of the a-side). More Sad Hits will be re-released by Sub Pop at the
beginning of May. Damon was very pleased about the live Galaxie 500 album
getting released ("I always liked that tape").

I shook their hands (again) told them they were great (again) and told them to
come back soon (god did I really say that) - and lamely walked away. I'm so
pleased that these two of my heroes were really nice people - I just wish
they'd play here more often.


