---
layout: post
status: publish
published: true
title: Big Apple Tour
author:
  display_name: Andy
  login: admin
  email: andy@fullofwishes.co.uk
  url: http://www.grange85.co.uk
author_login: admin
author_email: andy@fullofwishes.co.uk
author_url: http://www.grange85.co.uk
date: '2001-09-20'
categories:
- luna
tags: []
---
Time Out NY, January 2001

_Snow, spew and other tales from Luna's tour of New York City_  
By Dean Wareham

Over the course of eight weeks in January and February 2001, New York band
Luna decided to promote its new live album by undertaking an extensive tour of
its hometown's clubs, playing in a different one each weekend. Up holding the
great rock tradition of the tour diary, Luna's frontman Dean Wareham agreed to
share his thoughts about his band's exciting travels-and travails.

**December 31, 2000**  
I thought it would be an honor and a privilege to ring in the real new
millennium (not the phony millennium) at the most glamorous club in New York,
CBGB. We had to shovel a path through the snow - the show took place during
"Storm 2000" - so we could load our equipment into the club. After sound
check, we all ran home to rest for a few hours before show time. I live a mere
two blocks from CBGB but our drummer Lee Wall's apartment is all the way up on
West 73rd Street. I took a long nap in the early evening, and when I arrived
at the club, there was a long line at the bar. Luckily, club owner Hilly
Kristal bought me a drink, and a nice couple gave me a bottle of champagne.

We had decided to have our comedian friend Todd Barry open the show. He was a
little nervous about opening for a rock band, so I told him about the time I
saw a comedian opening for Ray Charles get booed off the stage at Tramps. Todd
asked Sean Eden (our guitarist) and me to introduce him and then told the
audience it was the worst introduction he had ever received. He spent most of
his time onstage dealing with hecklers, which he seemed to enjoy.

By the time we were ready to play, the crowd was rowdy and drunk. During the
second song, a guy (whose girlfriend had been heckling Todd) vomited on the
side of the stage and all over the amplifier of our bassist, Britta Phillips.
Nice. I heard that someone else got kicked out after he punched his girlfriend
in the face. And another drunken fool knocked out the webcast camera by
swinging from the rafters; he, too, was ejected. On the positive side, a nice
lady got onstage and gave Lee a big kiss. We started our set with "Egg Nog"
and ended with "Rock Your Baby" by George McCrae. Some guy kept calling out
for "City Kitty", which we never play. By the time we had finished packing up
our equipment, it was about 2:30am. It had been along day.

**January 8, 2001**  
Today we recorded basic tracks for some new songs at our practice space. Now I
need to write the lyrics.

**January 11**  
We rehearsed for our big weekend at the Mercury Lounge. We figured we ought to
mix up the set a little, so we ran through some songs we haven't played in
many years, like I Can't Wait (Lee always wants to do the fast ones),
"Freakin' and Peakin’” and "City Kitty" (which can sound a little murky). At
night, I watched the new Pollock film, which wasn't bad. I didn't learn very
much, though, except that there was a hot chick in the car with Jackson when
he drove it into a tree.

**January 12**  
It's more difficult to find a cab going east on Houston Street than one going
west, and on weekend nights, the traffic is ridiculous - so I had to walk over
to the Mercury Lounge on Friday evening. We like to arrive about an hour
before show time, to sit and have a drink or two before hitting the stage. I
must say it gets a bit hot and stinky in the club's basement dressing room.
The crowd was a little subdued, but midway through the set things started to
percolate - right after we played "City Kitty," perhaps. After the show there
was some discussion about where we should go for a drink. We ended up at 2A,
where there was some discussion about Cheap Trick. I had one too many vodkas
and went home to sleep.

**January 13**  
I didn't feel so great. I tried to nap all day but couldn't - although I did
manage to get a cab to the Mercury Lounge. We were all a little tired, but
soon enough, we were back onstage. David Knowles (of Champale) played a
trumpet solo on "Bewitched”, and I almost got a little misty. My Buttface fuzz
pedal wouldn't work during "Bonnie and Clyde”. I must replace the battery
before we play Maxwell's next weekend.

**January 17**  
Today The New Yorker came in the mail; it included a nice cartoon drawing of
us, which was done by Aggi of the Pastels (a very influential Scottish rock
band). I got some phone calls from people who were suitably impressed. The New
Yorker, or course, has bourgeois credibility. (Note to self. See if they'd be
interested in a tour diary).

**January 19**  
At 5pm, we met at my place to drive to Hoboken in my purple Subaru Impreza.
Todd Abramson at Maxwell's had said he was going to present us with a special
certificate for being the band that has played the most sold-out shows there
(breaking the "record" held by the Feelies), but he didn't. The good thing
about Maxwell's is that they feed you at the restaurant, but then you have
three hours to kill before show time. So you wind up hanging out in the
basement, next to the bottles of bleach and urinal blocks and syrup jugs,
staring at graffiti that's been there for ten years. Luckily, we could look
forward to the Mink Lungs set, which was great-they have hilarious songs and
are dynamic performers to boot.

Tonight's crowd was well behaved. One time at Maxwell's a few years ago, some
jerk stole a bunch of our pedals right off the stage and ran out the door. Now
when we play there, Sean keeps a watchful eye on our stuff-including my
Buttface pedal, which sounded nasty tonight (it's supposed to).

**January 20**  
The second show at Maxwell's took place as old man winter unleashed his fury
on the region once again. We played "Sweet Child o' Mine", as a favor to one
of the waitresses at the club. After the show, I sat with Todd in the
basement, watching him count the money. He counts money pretty slowly. We all
drove back to the city, dropping Lee at the exit from the Holland Tunnel,
Britta in Chinatown, and me back at Bowery and Bleecker, trying to smoke a
cigarette and carry two guitars while battling the wind and snow.

_Luna's tour of New York City concludes at the Knitting Factory Friday 2 and
Saturday 3. Live Is out Tuesday 6 on Beggars Banquet._

