---
layout: post
status: publish
published: true
title: Galaxie 500
author:
  display_name: Andy
  login: admin
  email: andy@fullofwishes.co.uk
  url: http://www.grange85.co.uk
author_login: admin
author_email: andy@fullofwishes.co.uk
author_url: http://www.grange85.co.uk
wordpress_id: 357
wordpress_url: http://www.fullofwishes.co.uk/1988/01/01/galaxie-500/
date: '1988-01-01 00:00:00 +0000'
date_gmt: '1988-01-01 00:00:00 +0000'
categories:
- Galaxie 500
tags: []
---
<p>The first really neat thing about Galaxie 500 is this. While walking along the streets of Boston with this mild-mannered trio, one of them will invariably spot a parked car along the way. Not just any parked car, mind you, but one particular parked car. "Oooh, a Galaxy 500," one of them will squeal, and the three will run across the street to gaze longingly at their misspelled namesake, a big ol' Ford that tends to run until the engine falls out from rust. Actually, they've been known to react this way to Galaxy 500 bowling balls too.<br />The second really neat thing about Galaxie 500 is, as we say, in the tunes. They've been around Boston for less than a year now, yet have already built up a pretty good following, and released a single that's been all over the area's dozen or so college radio stations, as well as onto John Peel's radio show in England. <br />Now, you've probably had some (over)exposure to the "Boston scene," be it in the form of the Lyres, Neats, Dipper, Suns, Salem, or any of the other skadillion bands the place has produced. You've probably also formed some opinions re: how a Boston band is going to sound. Well, whatever your presuppositions may be, in the case of Galaxie 500, they're wrong. Really wrong, unless you're expecting a sound that fusesw third-album period Velvet Underground, early Feelies, Thirteenth Floor Elevators, Swell Maps, and still comes up with something even the most jaded & haggard die-hards'll find fresh.<br />Sorry, but I've withheld some useful information, that being the fact that Galaxie 500 actually started in a New York City high school about seven years ago. No, they weren't Galaxie 500 then, but Dean Wareham, Damon Krukowski, and Naomi Yang were pals. Damon & Naomi were born in New York, Dean in Wellington, New Zealand. Dean's family moved to Australia when he was seven, and New York when he was fourteen. They started listening to punk rock records, Damon learned New Wave drumming from the school's percussion teacher, Dean learned how to play guitar, and they went to Harvard. <br />At Havard, Dean and Damon formed a band with Mark, another high scool pal, on bass. Speedy and the Castanets (they blame Mark for that one) lasted a couple years until Mark found religion. That ended that. Naomi went on to Harvard a year later than the other two, and up till then hadn't even thought of picking up a bass. After graduating, Dean went off to Europe for a while, then returned to New York, where as he recalls, he wasn't doing "much of anything." Damon & Naomi were still in Boston, now Harvard grad students, and they convinced Dean to move back to New England to get the band thing happening again, this time with Naomi handling bass chores. Naomi's boredom with architectural school turned out to be for the benefit of the rest of us.<br />Anyway, we're now in the autumn of 1987 and Galaxie 500 have just formed. Moe Tucker passed through town for a gig, and Dean interviewed her for some fine publication. During the interview Moe and Jad Fair sang the praise of Noise Studio in New York, which Kramer had just opened. Dean heard some stuff Tucker had recorded there, and found it to his liking. Being that Galaxie 500 was hankering to do some recording, they called Kramer, who invited them down.<br />Galaxie spent eight hours in the studio with Kramer, and came out with seven songs. Two of those made their way to vinyl as the debut release on Aurora records, a label formed by Taang! alum Marc Alghini (and another onto a seven-inch sampler of bands-who-can't-sing that comes with some shitty magazine - ed.) <br />"Tugboat," the nominal A-side, contains some of the nicest post-Velvets riffing to come along in a while. It opens with a simple chord progression, over which comes Dean's plaintive vocals. There's only one verse and chorus, which repeats, and then comes the real prize. Dean breaks into a solo which goes off in a few different directions before settling back into the basic riff for the end. <br />In the true spirit of D.I.Y. music, "Tugboat" just sort of happened. "I wrote the lyrics in about seven minutes," recalls Dean. "We were meeting to go record. Damon & Naomi were late. I grabbed a cup of coffee, and sat down and wrote." <br />"We had a new riff we were eager to record..." chimes in Damon.<br />"...And it took off in the studio," finishes Dean.<br />Naomi continues, "Yeah, we all kept playing. Rather, Dean kept playing, and somehow we all ended at the same time."<br />Damon picks up the story, "we assumed (Kramer) was fading it out, and when we got into the mixing booth, Kramer said 'I don't know, it all sounds pretty good to me. Why don't we keep the whole thing?' So we kept it."<br />"King of Spain," the nominal B-side (the band won't consider the single as having an A or B-side) was a song Galaxie 500 had been playing live for awhile. It's a more placid song than "tugboat," with the vocals carrying more of the melody. "King of Spain" has two guitar solos, an idea which Dean says was inspired by the Thirteenth Floor Elevators' "Bull of the Woods" LP.<br />Galaxie 500 songs are written around guitar leads, not vocal hooks, an oddity for a well-educated trio which includes an English grad student. Naomi says "It's not like Dean said 'I wanna be a singer,' and had all these Morrissey lyrics." In fact, many is the time Dean seems as if he'd be a lot happier if the lyrics could just go away. Neither Damon nor Naomi sings backup, and the band doesn't count on incorporating more voices into their songs.<br />Live, Galaxie 500 present a picture of intense understatement. Dean and Naomi both use small amps, and Damon fights an often unsuccessful battle to keep his drums un-miked. "You go to each club and each club sets you up however, and by and large clubs set up bottom-heavy and vocal-heavy. It's all voice and bass drum." They're not exactly a dance band, but they don't need to be to still pack a wallop.<br />Galaxie 500 took the summer off from gigging to record some more stuff with Kramer. Dean says, "I'd really rather record a really good EP than a fair album." You'll all be able to hear how many worthwhile songs Galaxie 500 think they have sometime later in fall or winter (8 new ones - ed.)<br />The third really neat thing about Galaxie 500 is that they seem to be disproving the adage that friends can't successfully be in bands together. They'll keep this band going, but only as long as it stays fun, and "on their own terms." Ay Dean says, "I'd like to make one of the best albums ever made. I want to do it because I like this sound. I like playing it, I like listening to it. And if you're not going to let me do that, I'll quit, because there are much better ways to make money." Hopefully, someone's gonna let 'em do that, and Galaxie 500'll keep moving along, at least for a couple hundred thousand miles or so.</p>
